# CS442 Assignment 4 Schema refinement
Josh Gribbon

2017-12-05

---

**1) Consider a relation R(A,B,C,D,E) with FD={AB->C, CD->E, C->A, C->D, D->B}. Determine all the keys of relation R. Please include your reasoning of how to find the keys. DO NOT list superkeys. (30pts)**

L|M|R
:--|:--|:--
None|ABCD|E

1. Single attribute keys(all from the left side, none in this case, with any combo from the middle)
    * A+={A}
    * B+={B}
    * C+={CADBE} Found a key!
    * D+={DB}
2. Double attribute keys(same selection rule as above, but also now nothing containing C because that's a key)
    * AB+={ABCDE} Found a key!
    * AD+={ADBCE} Found a key!
    * BD+={BD}

No check needed for three-attribute keys, because all possible ones would be a superset of the keys already found.

Keys: {C, AB, AD}

**2) Given relation schema R(A,B,C,D,E,F) with associated functional dependencies FD={AB->C, AD->B, C->B, F->AD, F->E}, use Armstrong’s Axioms to prove that F is a superkey of R. (20pts)**

1. F->F, F->F
2. F->AD, F->FAD
3. F->E, F->FADE
4. AD->B & F->AD, F->FADEB
5. AB->C & F->AB, F->FADEBC={ABCDEF}

F is a superkey of R.


**3) Consider a relation StudentInfo(StudNo, StudName, Major, Advisor, CourseNo, Ctitle, InstrucName, InstrucLocn, Grade). Assume it has the following functional dependencies:**
* **FD1:  StudNo -> StudName**
* **FD2:  CourseNo -> Ctitle,InstrucName**
* **FD3:  InstrucName -> InstrucLocn**
* **FD4:  StudNo,CourseNo,Major -> Grade**
* **FD5:  StudNo,Major -> Advisor**
* **FD6: Advisor -> Major**
*
**To make the StudentInfo table to be BCNF, the StudentInfo table has been decomposed into the following relations:**
* **Student(StudNo, StudName)**
* **StudMajor(StudNo, Major, Advisor)**
* **StudCourse(StudNo, Major, CourseNo, Ctitle, Instrucname, InstrucLocn, Grade).**
**Does this decomposition satisfy BCNF? If not, apply further decomposition to make all relations satisfy BCNF (50pts).**
s
