## CS 442 Homework 2 - Josh Gribbon

### Problem 1
Consider a relational database about hotels, customers (guests) and their bookings that are maintained by an on­line hotel­booking company. The database consists of the following tables (where the primary keys are bold):
* Hotel (**hId**, hName, hAddress, hCity)
* Guest(**gId**, gName, gAddress, gCity)
* Room(**hid**, **roomNo**, type, price )
* Booking(**gId**, **hId**, **roomNo**, **fromDate**, **year**, noOfDays)

The Booking relation indicates that a guest booked a hotel room for a specified number of days (noOfDays) starting from fromDate of a given year. For instance, a tuple <g12345, h5555, 220, Jan05, 2005, 8> in Booking indicates that guest g12345 booked room 220 of the h5555 hotel for 8 days starting on Jan 5, 2005. The attribute "gAddress" records the home address of the guests.

Write the following queries in relational algebra [5*6pts=30pts]:
#### 1.1 Return the name of guests who have booked a hotel room in NYC in January 2017 (tips: "January 2017' = "Jan01, 2017 to Jan31, 2017".
\[\pi_{gName}(\sigma_{fromDate >= "Jan01, 2017" \wedge fromData <= "Jan31, 2017"}(Guest \bowtie Booking))\]
#### 1.2 Return the name of guests who have booked a hotel room of type “suite” in NYC for longer than 10 days.
\[\pi_{gName}(\sigma_{(type="suite") \wedge (noOfDays > 10) \wedge (hCity="NYC")}(Guest \bowtie Booking \bowtie Room \bowtie Hotel))\]
#### 1.3 Return the name of guests who never booked a hotel room for longer than 5 days.
\[\pi_{gName}(Guest - \pi_{gId, gName, gAddress, gCity}(\sigma_{noOfDays > 5}(Guest \bowtie Booking)))\]
#### 1.4 Return the IDs of the hotels located in NYC which were not booked at all in the year 2017.
\[\pi_{hId}(Hotel - \pi_{hId, hName, hAddress, hCity}(\sigma_{year=2017}(Hotel \bowtie Booking)))\]
#### 1.5 Return the ids of the guests who have booked at least one room of type “suite” in every hotel located in NYC.
\[\rho(NYCHotels, \pi_{hId}(\sigma_{hCity="NYC"}(Hotel))))\]
\[\rho(SuiteBookings, \pi_{gId, hId}(\sigma_{type="suite"}(Booking \bowtie Room)))\]
\[\pi_{gId}(SuiteBookings / NYCHotels)\]

### Problem 2
Consider the following relational schema
* Emp(**eid : integer**, ename : string, age : integer, salary : real)
* Works(**eid : integer**, **did : integer**)
* Dept(**did : integer**, budget : real, managerid : integer, dname:string)

Since the mangers are employers, the did value of the managers in Dept table is the same as the eid value of these managers in Emp table.

The key fields are bold, and the domain of each field is listed after the field name. The Works relation maps employees to the departments. Write the following queries in SQL [5*6pts=30pts].

#### 2.1 Find the name and age of all employees who work in both Hardware and Software departments.
```sql
select E.ename, E.age
from Emp E
inner join Works W1 on W1.eid = E.eid
inner join Dept D1 on D1.did = W1.did
inner join Works W2 on W2.eid = E.eid
inner join Dept D2 on D2.did = W2.did
where D1.dname = 'Hardware'
    and D2.dname = 'Software'
```
#### 2.2 Find the id of managers who control the largest amount of budget.
```sql
select managerid
from Dept
order by budget
```
#### 2.3 Find the id of the managers who manage only the departments of budget that is at least 1 million dollars.
```sql
select managerid
from Dept
where budget >= 1000000
```
#### 2.4 Find the name of all employees whose salary exceeds the budget of all the departments that the employee works in.
```sql
select E.ename
from Emp E
where E.salary > (
    select max(budget)
    from Dept D
    inner join Works W on D.did = W.did
    where W.eid = E.eid
)
```
#### 2.5 Find the name of managers who manage the department of the largest budgets.
```sql
select E.ename
from Emp E
inner join Works W on E.eid = W.eid
inner join Dept D on W.did = D.did
order by D.budget
```
### Problem 3
Consider a relational database about real estate that is maintained by a real estate agency. The database consists of the following table (where the primary keys are bold):
* House (**id**, asking_price, address, postal_code, baths, beds, sqft, sellerID)
* Seller(**id**, name, home_phone, e­mail, agentID)
* Buyer(**id**, name, home_phone, e­mail, agentID)
* Agent(**id**, name, mobile_phone, e­mail)
* Sold(**house_id**, **buyer_id**, **sale­date**, selling_price)  

The House table gives information about a house for sale. The Seller table gives information about the sellers of a house. The Buyer table gives information about (prospective) home buyers. The Agent table gives information about agents (who can act on behalf of either the buyer or the seller). And the Sold table gives information about the sale of a particular home – including the price at which the home actually sold, which may be different from the asking price.

#### 3.1 Answer the following questions in relational algebra [2*10pts=20pts]:
##### 3.1.a Return the id, addresses, asking_price, and selling_price of all houses that are sold at price  less than the asking price.
\[\rho(GoodDeals, \sigma_{selling\_price < asking\_price}(Sold \bowtie \pi_{\rho(id, house\_id), asking\_price, address}(House)))\]
\[\pi_{\rho(house\_id, id), address, asking\_price, selling\_price}(GoodDeals)\]
##### 3.1.b Return the names of all of (prospective) buyers who have not bought a house.
\[\rho(NotYetIds, \pi_{id}(Buyer) - \pi_{\rho(buyer_id, id)}(Sold))\]
\[\pi_{name}(Buyer \bowtie NotYetIds)\]
#### 3.2 Answer the following questions in SQL [2*10pts=20pts]:

##### 3.2.a For each postal code in which there were at least three houses sold, find the postal code and the  average selling price of houses in that postal code.
```sql
select H.postal_code, avg(S.selling_price) as avg_selling_price
from House H
inner join Sold S on H.id = S.house_id
group by H.postal_code
having count(H.id) >= 3
```
##### 3.2.b Find the addresses and asking prices of all houses that have at least 4 bedrooms and 2 bathrooms that have not been sold. Each (address, asking price) pair should appear only once.
```sql
select distinct H.address, H.asking_price
from House H
left join Sold S on H.id = S.house_id
where H.beds >= 4
    and H.baths >= 2
    and S.house_id is null
```
