Purpose -> Background and Purpose

Procedure
    Our goal: develop a model to accurately predict total PCB levels in a sample by sampling a handful of PCB measures. We will develop from a data set of 69 samples, each having the measured total PCB level and the level for each congener.

    First we look at the distributions of total PCB along with PCB52, PCB118, PCB138, and PCB 180(S2.11.42a). As expected total PCB numbers are larger, as that measures the sum of all 209 types of PCB. At this point we notice that the PCB congeners do not regularly occur at the same levels, not do they have similar standard deviations, but they do seem to be roughly proportional. Next we look at the relationship between the congeners(S2.11.42b). All are positively correlated, and many have high correlation coefficients. By visually inspecting the plots we see that the spread between points increases as the axes move away from 0. This skewness along with the proportional nature of the sample statistics informs us that a transformation on the data would likely improve our analysis.
    Next we make a model based on the data as it is(S2.11.43a), run a regression(S2.11.43b), and analyze the residuals(S2.11.43c). For the model we find that all our coefficients are statistically significant(stat.sig.) from 0, but the the intercept B0 is not. The residuals seem fairly normal with two outliers, but yield no patterns when compared to the explanatory variables. When we remove the two outliers(S2.11.44) all values in our model become stat.sig., and we decrease our standard error, improving the model as a whole. After that we try removing PCB180(S2:11.45), and see that our model suffers as a result, also changing the value and statistic of other variables in the model.
    Now we switch focus a bit, and instead look at predicting TEQ(toxic equivalent score) using measures of total PCB along with dioxins and furans, other toxic chemicals(S2.11.46). We take this a step further and try predicting TEQ using just four congeners for PCB(S2.11.47). We were not able to create a model that was a good fit for the data. Only the intercept and the coefficient for one congener were stat.sig. different from zero.
    We return to our quest to predict TEQ
